# CS-340-X6146-Client-Server-Development-23EW6
CS-340-X6146 Client/Server Development 23EW6  Repo for course work in CS-340.
CS-340 Austin Animal Control README
CS-340-X6146 Client/Server Development 23EW6
Scott Dixon
August 16, 2023
Austin Animal Control Animal Categorization System
To write maintainable, readable, modular software applications I develop code into separate functions and classes within the program. The CRUD module I created for the project contains all the repetitive database access logic into simple create, read, update, and delete functions. This made the main code much cleaner and allowed the CRUD functions to be easily reused. To extend this module's capabilities, I added error-handling logic to make sure that errors were easily found. 
As a computer scientist, I take a methodical, step-by-step approach to solving problems. For this project, I broke down the requirements into logical components like the CRUD functions, dashboard layout driver, and widgets. By tackling each piece incrementally and testing frequently, I could iterate on each component and verify that they operated correctly. I find this approach less overwhelming than trying to solve everything at once. In the future, I will take a similar path for any complex problem - breaking it down into smaller parts that can be developed and tested more easily.
Computer scientists design and build software systems that help people and organizations achieve their goals more efficiently and effectively. For a company like Grazioso Salvare, this project automated the collection and analysis of animal shelter data that may have been previously done manually. By providing a systematic way to record and retrieve data, and generate insightful reports, this software saves employees time and gives owners and shareholders better insight into the business. Well-designed programs can free us from repetitive or complex tasks while leveraging the strengths of various algorithms that simplify data processing while improving accuracy. Developing maintainable, modular software to more easily solve problems is at the heart of what we, as computer scientists, do. 

⦁	This project involves developing a system to categorize animals in the care of Austin Animal Control (AAC) based on animal type, breed, age, adoption status, and other factors. The goal is to allow AAC staff to quickly and accurately classify incoming animals to improve care and facilitate adoption.
⦁	The system will utilize MongoDB, and future implementation will use machine-learning models trained on images of animals and data from past intakes along with Dash and Plotly. Staff will be able to upload information along with photos of new animals, and the model will suggest categories and classifications apply. The categories will allow animals to be housed appropriately and surface key information to potential adopters.
⦁	In addition to assisting with categorization, the system will also track statistics and trends over time, related to the types of animals AAC takes in. This data could help inform future operations and outreach. Overall, the system aims to optimize AAC's processes and improve outcomes for animals and the community.

Motivation
⦁	The Austin Animal Center (AAC) is the municipal animal shelter serving Austin, Texas. The AAC takes in over 18,000 animals each year, providing them with care and seeking to find them new homes. Proper categorization and organization of these animals is crucial and can be challenging with limited staff and a large intake volume.
⦁	This project aims to optimize AAC's animal categorization processes through automation. By implementing a machine learning system to classify animal photos and data, staff time spent on this task can be significantly reduced. Employees can instead focus on more critical operations like interacting with animals, potential adopters, and the Austin community.

Austin Animal Center runs the largest no-kill animal shelter in the United States, providing shelter to more than 18,000 animals each year and animal protection services to all of Austin and Travis County. The Austin Animal Center is an open-intake facility where lost and surrendered animals from Travis County needing shelter are accepted regardless of age, health, species, or breed. The goal of the Austin Animal Center is to place all adoptable animals in forever homes. (“Austin Animal Center | AustinTexas.gov”)

